# README

The onset of COVID-19 has led to an unprecedented public health emergency, with over 16 million infected. The majority of COVID-19 fatalities are attributed to pneumonia and severe respiratory complications, making rapid detection extremely critical. However, diagnosis and testing still remains a major issue in many underserved communities, and it disproportionately affects racial minorities. It is imperative that doctors are able to identify patients with COVID-induced pneumonia to confirm the severity of diagnosis and create a proper treatment plan, which can include preventative contact tracing. Independently, pneumonia remains a major health problem, hitting developing countries the hardest and remaining a leading cause of mortality worldwide. Although chest radiology does not provide specific etiological diagnosis, it is strongly recommended when COVID-19 or pneumonia is suspected, as it is a valuable screening tool, can analyze the severity of the disease, and guide medical procedures. Two-thirds of the world lacks access to radiologists to properly examine x-rays and turnaround time for diagnosis is often delayed. 

Healthcare workers will be able to upload patient x-ray scans into Pneumo, which will be processed by an image classifier in order to diagnose uploaded scans. We will be using Swift and Xcode, training a variety of image recognition algorithms (e.g. CreateML, TuriCreate), and integrating the highest-performing solution in our app using CoreML. We will also use protected cloud-based storage for all scans so records can be accessed by a network of doctors if needed.
